Understanding the SBXG Library
===============================================================================

SBXG heavily relies on its own **library concept**. It is a finite set of
directories that conform to a well-specified file hierarchy. This file
hierarchy is explained in the present document.

The following directory hierarchy exposes all the different directories
recognized as being part of an *SBXG library*. Here, we assume the library is
composed of a single directory, named ``sbxg/lib/``::

  sbxg/lib/
  ├── toolchains/
  ├── configs/
  ├── sources/
  ├── bootscripts/
  ├── images/
  └── boards/

.. _lib-toolchain:

The ``toolchains/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``toolchains/`` directory contains YAML_ files, each one describing a
*toolchain*::

  sbxg/lib/
  └── toolchains
      └── *.yml

A toolchain file may contain the following paramters:

+----------+------------------------------------------+
| Name     | Description                              |
+==========+==========================================+
| url      | URL where to download the toolchain from |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| path     | Extracted (``tar -xf``) directory        |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| prefix   | Cross-compilation prefix                 |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| arch     | Linux and U-Boot architecture code name  |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| xen_arch | Xen architecture code name               |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| host     | Typically, the prefix without underscore |
+----------+------------------------------------------+

When **cross-compiling**, all these parameters should be mandatory. Note
however that **native compilation** currently relies on the trick that some of
these parameters may be not set or set to an empty string.


The ``configs/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``configs/`` directory contains **three** subdirectories. Each of them
contains Kconfig files that are used by Linux, U-Boot and Xen to configure
their build::

  sbxg/lib/
  └── configs
      ├── linux
      │   └── *
      ├── uboot
      │   └── *
      └── xen
          └── *

These files may or may not have an extension. By convention, their name should
self-describe their purpose. For example, a Linux 4.14 configuration file that
allows to compile minimal Xen guests (domus) may be named:
``linux-4.14-xen-domu-minimal``.


.. _lib-sources:

The ``sources/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``sources/`` directory contains **four** subdirectories. Each of them
contains YAML_ files that describe how the various components (Linux, U-Boot,
Xen and genimage) may be retrieved::

  sbxg/lib/
  └── sources
      ├── genimage
      │   └── *.yml
      ├── linux
      │   └── *.yml
      ├── uboot
      │   └── *.yml
      └── xen
          └── *.yml

A source file **must** contain the following paramters:

+----------+------------------------------------------+
| Name     | Description                              |
+==========+==========================================+
| url      | URL where to download the component from |
+----------+------------------------------------------+
| path     | Extracted (``tar -xf``) directory        |
+----------+------------------------------------------+


The ``bootscripts/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``bootscripts/`` directory contains Jinja2_ template files that must
program the U-Boot bootloader at boot-time. These files are associated with a
templating context that is described in :doc:`/sbxg/templating`.  To learn
more about bootscripts, please refer to `U-Boot's website
<https://www.denx.de/wiki/DULG/UBootScripts>`_.

::

  sbxg/lib/
  └── bootscripts
      └── *

These files may or may not have an extension. By convention, their name should
self-describe their purpose, and the extension is always ``.j2`` (but this is
not mandatory). For example a boot script allowing U-Boot to boot a sunxi board
may be named: ``boot-sunxi-default.j2``.


The ``images/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``images/`` directory contains Jinja2_ template files that describe how
a disk image must be generated by genimage_. These files are associated with a
templating context that is described in :doc:`/sbxg/templating`.

::

  sbxg/lib/
  └── images
      └── *

These files may or may not have an extension. By convention, their name should
self-describe their purpose, and the extension is always ``.j2`` (but this is
not mandatory). For example a genimage configuration describing a simple SDcard
partitioning may be named: ``sdcard-simple.j2``.

.. _lib-board:

The ``boards/`` subdirectory
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``boards/`` directory contains YAML_ files, each one describing a *board*::

  sbxg/lib
  └── boards
      └── *.yml

A board describes what low-level components should be compiled, and what
binaries from these components should be used to generate a final disk image.
This file may contain the following top-level entries:

+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| Name           | Description                                             |
+================+=========================================================+
| toolchain      | Name of the toolchain to be used.                       |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| genimage       | Name of the genimage source to be used                  |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| linux          | Name of the Linux kernel source to be used              |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| linux_config   | Name of the Linux Kconfig to be used                    |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| linux_image    | Filename of the Linux executable (e.g. ``zImage``)      |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| linux_dtb      | Filename of the Linux DTB to be used                    |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| uboot          | Name of the U-Boot source to be used                    |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| uboot_config   | Name of the U-Boot Kconfig to be used                   |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| uboot_image    | Filename of the U-Boot executable                       |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| boot_script    | Name of the bootscript to be templated                  |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| disk_image     | Name of the genimage configuration to be templated      |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| root           | In the Kernel bootargs, path to the rootfs block device |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| rootfs         | URL to the rootfs (``.ext3``) to be used in the image   |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| linux_bootargs | Additional Linux bootargs to be specified               |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------+

.. _YAML: https://yaml.org/
.. _Jinja2: http://jinja.pocoo.org/
.. _genimage: https://github.com/pengutronix/genimage
